# Firmware Resiliency

FW Resiliency Firmware resiliency is a critical concept in modern cybersecurity,
particularly as outlined in the NIST SP 800-193 specification. As computing
devices become more integral to both personal and organizational operations, the
security of their underlying firmware has become paramount. Firmware is often a
target for sophisticated cyberattacks because it operates below the operating
system, making it a potential vector for persistent threats that can evade
traditional security measures. NIST SP 800-193 addresses these concerns by
providing a comprehensive framework for enhancing the security and resiliency of
platform firmware, ensuring that systems can withstand, detect, and recover from
attacks.

The NIST SP 800-193 guidelines focus on three main pillars: protection,
detection, and recovery. Protection involves implementing measures to prevent
unauthorized modifications to firmware, such as using cryptographic techniques
to authenticate updates. Detection is about ensuring that any unauthorized
changes to the firmware are quickly identified, which can be achieved through
integrity checks and monitoring mechanisms. Recovery is the ability to restore
firmware to a known good state after an attack or corruption, ensuring that the
system can continue to operate securely. By addressing these areas, the
guidelines aim to create a robust defense against firmware-level threats, which
are increasingly being exploited by attackers seeking to gain deep access to
systems.

In the context of NIST SP 800-193, firmware resiliency is not just about
preventing attacks but also about ensuring continuity and trust in the system.
The specification recognizes that while it is impossible to eliminate all risks,
having a resilient firmware infrastructure can significantly mitigate the impact
of potential breaches. This approach is particularly important for critical
infrastructure and enterprise environments, where the integrity and availability
of systems are crucial. By adopting the principles of NIST SP 800-193, we can
enhance our security posture, protect sensitive data, and maintain operational
stability in the face of evolving cyber threats.

## PRoT Resiliency

TBD

## Connected Device Resiliency

TBD